Curriculum Vitae Ornella Schavemaker-Piva Personal Data M.Sc. O. (Ornella) Schavemaker-Piva Geestweg 84B 2671EE Naaldwijk Date of Birth: 16-07-1971 Tel. 06 21673231 o.schavemaker@gmail.com Nationalities: Dutch, Italian Profile My creativity combined with strong analytical and technical skills are the instruments I intend to use for making the difference in the society. I possess a committed attitude, a good problem solving ability and excellent analytical skills. I am at best in a role where I can act as the link between the customer and the technique. I have a strong drive for result and to fulfill the customer’s needs. Thanks to my flexible character and communication skills , I can easily switch context and adapt to a new environment. My knowledge and experience in overseeing and monitoring the group’s dynamic makes me a good team player but also a good leader. Knowledge and experience Project management, tender management, sales activities, software development outsourcing, system and software architecture, software engineering, requirements analysis, configuration management, SLA management, testing Broad knowledge of technical IT systems and software lifecycle , modeling an d simulation, group facilitation, education and training , and technical customer support. Domains: traffic and transport, postal, defense (army, air force, air missile defence, jointed and combined defence), aerospace, disaster relief Information and requirements analysis, design, and documentation tools and standards: IEEE 830, STD-MIL 498, EIA J-STD-016, IBM Rational DOORS, Enterprise Architect, MS Visio Software Engineering: C++, C#, Java, Delphi, RUP, UML, Agile development, Iterative dev. Project management tools: Redmine, MS Office Project, Source Forge Employment history overview 2012-2013 ARS Traffic and Transport Technology: System architect and technical team leader 2011-2012 Prime Vision: Lead software engineer, SLA management , vice head of support department 2003-2011 TNO Defence, Security and Safety: Solution architect, technical consultant, project leader , and software engineer 1999–2003 Ordina Technical Automation (F/K/A High Tech Automation): Senior software engineer and system architect Highest study achievement 1999 M.Sc. Electronic engineering, Universitá degli studi di Ferrara (Italy) Employment history 2012 – 2013 ARS Traffic and Transport Technology System architect and technical team leader System architect and technical team leader: responsible for the design, documentation, realization, and testing of hardware and software systems for different “Spitsmijden” projects. Responsible for design, realization and integration in existent systems of an Android and iOS smartphone app. “Spitsmijden” projects aim to reduce traffic on given routes during rush hours. As a technical team lead: responsible for both the outsourcing development team (abroad) and in house software team, coordination and collaboration with other departments (communications and Service Desk). System architect: responsible for the design of a part of the new ESDAL (“Electronic Service Delivery for Abnormal Loads“) system. Abnormal load movements need an accurate route calculation and also to be pre-notified to police, high way and bridge authorities. The system takes care for the entire process from route calculation up to authorities’ notification. 2011 – 2012 Prime Vision Lead software engineer, SLA management , vice head of support department Lead software engineer: responsible for the design , realization, integration, and testing of software for mail sorting machines. Leading engineer of project teams, in agile development environment. Also responsible for the hand over between the software engineering and the support departments SLA management: responsible for inventory, administration and setup of support contracts. Vice head of support department: short collaboration with the new head of support department in setting the new department strategy 2003 – 2011 TNO Defence, Security and Safety Solution architect, technical consultant , project leader , and software engineer Project Leader: responsible of leading the team and collaborating with both developers and customers for many projects such as the (agile) design and development of a concept demonstrator for innovative debriefing of air force training missions in C++, C# and .NET, realization of a system that allows data management and data flow for the integration of existing tools that support military training missions, support to the Italian Armed Forces for their participation in a military international training exercise for Joint and Air Missile Defence ( technical support during contract phase, analysis, design, and development of simulation of Italian joint and air missile defense systems, training of operators and technical support during the exercise). Team sizes: 5-25 Tenders manager: responsible for writing and coordinating many national and international tenders and quotations. Solution Architect and Experiment Leader: responsible for the design, realization, integration, and testing with agile development methods of a complete simulation environment for briefing, planning, execution, analysis, and debriefing of distributed training missions using both COTS and in-house developed software; also responsible for the development of new Concept Of Operations; technical experiment leader during distributed experimental training missions. Requirements Engineer: requirements gathering , analysis, and documentation for many projects ( a.o. definition of a UGV (Unmanned Ground Vehicle) system (hardware and software), future Mission Training Centre of the R oyal Netherlands air Force, and future simulator for the Intelligence Information officers ). Delivery of documentation such as OCD (Operations Concept Document) and SSS (System Subsystem Specification) , and administrator of the requirements database with DOORS®. Group Facilitator: responsible for preparing and leading groups sessions such as brainstorms, project meetings, policy-making sessions, etc. with or without assistance of a software system. Software Engineer: analysis, design, and development in collaboration with SME’s (Subject Matter Experts) of many systems, such as simulation system for the training of Ground Air Defense Commanders, tank commanders, and tunnel operators (C, C++, STD-MIL 498) . 1999 – 2003 Ordina Technical Automation (F/K/A High Tech Automation) Senior software engineer and system architect Analysis, design (RUP, UML), development (programming language C, C++) , and integration of the SAM-site simulation as part of an embedded training systems for “beyond visual range” training of fighter jets (European project ). Documentation standard STD-MIL 498. System architect for the design of a software system for visualization and control of dredging machines. Analysis, design, and development (UML, C, C++) of software for the translation of F.E.M. (Finite Element Model) data as the output of car crash simulations into VRML (Virtual Reality Modelling Language) for 3D visualization into a web browser. Analysis, design and integration of a new data flow system in order to integrate many software systems for computing the effects of car crashes, and the visualization of the results. Education 1990 - 1999 M.Sc. Electronic engineering, Universitá degli studi di Ferrara (Italy) Thesis on “Conflict resolution for utility maps interpretation” (image analysis and elaboration) done at TU Delft. Partially part-time study. 1985 - 1990 High School Diploma, Liceo Sperimentale L. Ariosto (Ferrara, Italy) Main subjects: Mathematics, Physics, English, German, Philosophy Training courses 2012 Communication, Prime Vision 2009 Emergency Services Team Leader, G4S 2006 Project Management, Kern Consult 2006 HLA (High Level Architecture) 1516 Hands-On, Pitch 2006 First Aid and Emergency Service , Jan Fioole 2003 Software Lifecycle Implementation Method (S.L.I.M.), Ordina 2001 Service architectures and Middleware, CIBIT 2001 Analysis and Design of Real Time Systems, Ises 2000 Object-Oriented Analysis Technical and Design, Datasym 1999 Java programming Language, Sun Microsystems Language skills • Dutch, excellent • Italian, native • English, very good • German, sufficient Hobbies and interests Lifesaving: water rescue with dogs, first aid and team leading of emergency services. Study of natural and herbal medicine. Volunteer at Hedgehog Rescue Center in Honselersdijk. Design and maintenance of web sites. Stained glass, painting, photography, music, jewelry creation and natural stones . 