ADAM BIRKIN Address : Burgemeester vd Werffstraat 95, 2581 SH, Den Haag, NL Tel : +31 (0) 646 809 888 E-mail : adam.birkin@gmail.com Date of Birth : 16/03/84 Nationality : British Status : Married BSN : 286 682 576 Profile statement Adaptable, determined and polite nature suits working in diverse and challenging environments. Strong, diverse background business administration, communications, SharePoint development / administration, data analysis and project management within various international environments, adapting technical and problem solving skills to achieve positive results. Uphold highest level of professional and personal ethics; well-versed in regulatory requirements. Proficient in the use of technology to support top-priority business goals. EDUCATION 2002-2006: The University of Wales, Aberystwyth, Ceredigion, UK BSc. Bachelor of Science: Marine and Freshwater Biology > Including 16,000 word literature review 2000-2002: City of Stoke-on-Trent 6th Form College, Staffordshire, UK 3 A-levels Biology, Physical Education, General Studies 1995-2000: Madeley High School, Cheshire, UK 9 GCSEs > Including English Language / Literature, French, Maths and Science at grades A-B SELected Technical skills (1=Basic; 2=Intermediate; 3=Advanced) SharePoint 2007: 3 SharePoint Designer: 3 Web Design: 2 SharePoint 2010: 3 SharePoint Designer Workflows: 2 Web Trends: 2 SharePoint 2013: 3 Infopath: 2 Microsoft Office: 3 CSS: 3 Adobe Photoshop: 2 M' Windows Vista/7: 2 HTML: 3 Javascript: 1 TRAINING (Shell Open University) Anti-Bribery Principles; Code of Conduct; Conflicts of Interest; Data Privacy Knowledge Training; GRM Awareness; IRM - ELIS Awareness Training; Privacy and Data Protection; Safeguarding Information; Information Management (I) Awareness; IRM - IRM Overview. TRIM (Records Management Tool) : Individuals (Advanced); Individuals (Handling Most Confidential Records); Line Manager; Preservation Co-ordinator (TPC); Record Focal Point (RFP). SharePoint: SharePoint Functional Site Owner Fundamentals; Functional Site Owner Certification Exam. WORK EXPERIENCE SharePoint Administrator & Business Records Manager Shell International B.V., The Hague - http://www.shell.com 07/2012-current The External Communications (CX) Strategy & Planning team enables CX to deliver focused and measurable outcomes at predictable cost, promoting simplicity and continuous improvement. Developed annual and ERGO plan for SharePoint and Records Management (RM), utilising the Project Management Framework. Executed CX RM Refresh project; introduced fit-for-purpose technical set-up, inclusive of Focal Points, processes and training. Successfully guided CX to compliance. Configured Implicit/Explicit SharePoint records declaration. Scoped SharePoint RM solution requirements via the Business Records Managers network. As SME, led monthly CX RM calls with global Record Focal Point network, to: share statistics; collaborate; share best practices; coordinate compliance efforts. Created CX RM SharePoint KPI Dashboard; assisted Group Records Manager to implement similar structure for SECO. Arranged bi-weekly catch-up with ShareWise and monitored internal/external resources to keep at forefront of SharePoint updates, solutions and best practices. Global SharePoint SME to various levels of stakeholders across > 300 Sites; assisting the business to fully utilise the environment, from standard Site Owner tasks to advanced solutions. Promoted use of Colligo tool to synchronise Outlook e-mails to SharePoint. Provided SharePoint Site Statistic reports when available. Active contributor to Shell’s SharePoint Yammer Group. Onboarded Site Owners and RFPs with training and how-tos. Developed workflows and Infopath forms to meet business requirements; from approving travel to monitoring Statements of Work and voting forms. Utilised SharePoint Designer to modify SharePoint when appropriate. Strong use of HTML and CSS to ensure flexible, robust code. Created basic site assets and applied web standards to ensure developed sites adhere to accessibility and usability. Facilitated SharePoint upgrades through versions 2007, 2010 and 2013. * Career break travelling in India and EU from 09/2010-03/2011 Business Administrator (freelance) Sustainable Gains Travel Ltd., Sheffield & Beijing 11/2008-05/2012 Sustainable Gains Travel Ltd, is an international tour operator specializing in sustainable tourism to China and they are developing a Europe marketing operation as an agent for China International Travel Services (CITS). Key Skills gained: International travel arrangements and appreciation for other cultures; lived in Malaysia and India. Client Relationship Management, Customer Service. Market Research. Web Development / Web Marketing / CSS / HTML . Business Analyst (contract – SAP Project Phase 3) The Capita Group Plc, Birmingham - http://www.birmingham.gov.uk/btsp 06/2008-10/2008 Following on from previous role. Business Analyst for the Customer First Business Transformation programme which was set up with the aim of achieving consistent, world-class standards of customer service right across Birmingham City Council. Key Skills gained: International working environment. Statistics and report preparation. Microsoft Excel Pivot Tables, Macros, Formula Functions. Personally created and managed a Training Needs Analysis from end-to-end, whereby staff were interviewed, statistics captured and presented results altered the training program for thousands of staff. Administrator (contract – SAP Project Phase 2) Service Birmingham Ltd., Birmingham - http://www.birmingham.gov.uk/btsp 01/2008-05/2008 Following on from previous role. Expanded technical and communication skills whilst managing the administration of a large training project. Personally responsible for identifying training requirements and maximizing training efficiency by managing the schedule and booking procedure. Administrator (contract – SAP Project Phase 1) HCL Axon Ltd., Birmingham - http://www.birmingham.gov.uk/btsp 08/2007-12/2007 Coordinated the training team whose goal it was to bridge a skill gap for upwards of 50,000 staff as part of the largest Business Transformation ever performed on a European Local Government. personal interests Keen interests in sport, travel, IT, creative writing, design, movies and music. Played football from 6 years old and whilst at university managed and played for an amateur football team with much success. Completed 5 day kayaking grade 2 course, UK. Volunteered for the RSPB, UK. Held a full UK drivers license since 2003. *References available on request. 