CV-Andre Abi Khaled, Andre 7/3/2015 Adres: Generaal Spoorlaan 755, 2285 TL, Rijswijk-ZH, The Netherlands. Mobile: +31648744573 Email: aabikhaled@gmail.com Nationality: Dutch, The Netherlands Driving License: Dutch License cat. B Biography and Objectives Andre is an experienced IT Application Consultant, who works in IT since 2009. Andre can quickly identify the complex situations, grasp it independently and in a team of technical professionals to deliver concrete results. He is looking to grow on the short term into a role of senior IT consultant. Characteristics of Andre: Client oriented, professional, dedicated, reliable, analytical, accurate and results oriented. Education Delft University of Technology September 2009 Major: Master of Science in Computer Engineering. Languages English, Dutch, French and Arabic: all fluent skills Consulting: writing Impact Analysis reports and providing advice. Leadership: Communicating with different departments on client site. Project Management: Leading projects, delivery, costs and impact. Cloud Computing: Microsoft Windows Azure. Application Lifecycle Management: Deploying applications. DevOps: working on the Transisiton and handing over from project to Maintenance. Presentation: preparing and giving demos to stakeholders. Troubleshooting: failed discovery of IT assets on network and systems. Testing and Agility: designing test scenarios, executing regression testing and working in a scrum team. IT Service Management: working between transition and operational phase of a service . IT Asset Management: working on the discovery of IT assets and updating the Federated CMDB. experience IT Application Consultant | CGI September 2011 - Present Andre is working on various customer projects within the software team at CGI , predominantly software deployments that involved a lot of system integrations related activities also. He has experience in working with cross-sectorial clients namely in the telecom and public sector. Andre executes in his role the following tasks: Leading projects including the migration of software applications, writing impact analysis and setting up the costs and finance for the new coming projects. Working with BMC IT service management Remedy CMDB (Configuration Management Database) , Service now, Atrium Discovery Dependecy Mapping (ADDM) troubleshooting, networking infrastructure, Red Hat Linux 6.0, windows server 2012 and BMC ADDM discovery tool. Writing functional and end user documents. Worked in the transitional phase from project delivery to Operations Maintenance using DevOps. Executing regression, system, end to end testing for Quality Assurance and reporting the test documents. Preparing and giving PowerPoint presentations for stakeholders about BMC Atrium Discovery product. Worked with ITIL v3 processes including release, change, incident and asset management. Achievements: He contributes on the optimal performance and availability of the software components of the BMC Discovery tool for the scanning of new assets. This helps the client in having better insight on their IT assets. Andre has also worked as a technical support engineer and executed tasks in monitoring the Service Level Agreements made with the customer, engaging the right parties and resolving the failures and incidents during and outside the working hours, and deploying applications on the live environment. He keeps the customer informed about the status and handling of its Service Requests (Changes and Incidents). He was also as Service Support Specialist involved in various ICT related projects. Tools Acquired: Jira, HP ALM (Application Lifecycle Management), Serivcenow CMDB , Deploying and releasing .NET web services on distributed architecture, Microsoft Azure and Microsoft Internet Information Services (IIS) . IT Application Consultant | Nuon December 2009 – August 2011 In December 2009, Nuon is acquired by Vattenfall . The IT landscape at Nuon was changed to that of Vattenfall. Andre has performed functional application manager. He has experience in planning, installing, patching and configuring the CMDB applications . In addition, Andre performed tasks at Nuon like the inventory of assets . During this period he followed training for Red Hat System Administration I and ITIL v3. Andre has worked with tools like HP Service Manager and BMC Remedy. Achievements: Andre contributed on keeping the CMDB up to date with the IT assets Certifications EXIN: Cloud Computing Fundamentals; EXIN: ITIL Foundation 2011; EXIN: Prince 2 Foundation.; MCSA: Private Cloud with System Center 2008; MCSA: Microsoft Certificate Server Administrator 2008. 