Mehmet Erdemsoy Senior Consultant Email: mehmet.erdemsoy@gmail.com Nationality: Dutch / Turkish Driver License: B company site: www.ardevco.com LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/erdemsoy Specialized in designing, developing, migrating, scaling out, troubleshooting and tuning Enterprise Integration S ystems. Also extensive knowledge in Oracle Fusion environment, Weblogic, JVM and SQL tuning. Expert knowledge in Oracle Fusion Middleware, Oracle Service Bus, Oracle Database Java SE and Java (EE) technology. Experienced in object-oriented analysis and design, development and implement ing of large-scale, n-tier distributed web and back-end applications as well as maintenance and support of enterprise applications. Able to design scalable, high-available and multi-threaded concurrent applications. Knowledge and experience in software development methods like Continuous Integration, Continuous D elivery, Waterfall and Agile (scrum). Also skilled in knowledge-sharing, presentation and documentation . Please see my site for the latest version of my CV. Experience June 2014-Current Integration Consultant, Contractor In all projects, scrum method is used. Alliander Developing integration applications using Oracle OSB, Oracle Database and Java on Weblogic en Linux environments . Projects: LIP (Landelijk Internet Portal) Realized an Internet portal for twenty five cooperating operators of energy, water and communications infrastructure. The portal will support expected for 5 million households in the Netherlands. Project goals successfully achieved. Used technologies: Oracle DB 11g, Oracle OSB 11g, Java EE, Weblogic 11g, SoapUI Landelijk Meterketen /CTS Successfully (re)designed and developed a new release of CTS to be able to process the growing amount of new generation electricity meters using Java (EE), Oracle database and OSB. Project goals, higher reliability, higher availability and more capacity successfully achieved. Used technologies: Oracle DB 11g, Oracle OSB 11g, Java EE, Weblogic 11g, SoapUI Internal Organizing knowledge sessions about technical topics like XSLT, XQuery, Security, Weblogic EnergyWorks Implemented Restful services in Java 8 and Java EE6. Project goals successfully achieved. Used technologies: Java 8, Java EE6, Jax-RS, OAUTH, WS02 Tulp Implementing a migration system to migrate new smart electricity meters using Java (EE), Oracle database and OSB. Project goals successfully achieved. DevOps Consulting and setting up dev-ops solutions for the team using Jenkins and other tools. It is a continuous project. The planned targets are successfully achieved. Sep. 2012-May. 2014 Integration Consultant In all projects, scrum method is used. Liberty Global Projects: Kabel Baden-Württemberg, Germany Design and implement integration of the order processing and provisioning systems. Used technologies: Oracle DB 11g, Oracle Fusion 10.3, Oracle OSB 10.3, Java EE 5, Weblogic 10 .3, SoapUI UnityMedia, Germany Design and implement solutions for new functionality in the integration systems of Kabel Baden-Württemberg. Used technologies: Oracle DB 11g, Oracle Fusion 10.3, Oracle OSB 10.3, Java EE 5, Weblogic 10 .3, SoapUI Kabel Baden-Württemberg, Germany Scaling out the BPEL and OSB environment from 2+2 nodes to 4+4 nodes. Changing the configuration of the domain and network according to the changed requirements. Performance testing en performance tuning. Used technologies: Oracle AWR reports, Oracle reporting tools, Linux tools, Jython, WLST, Project testing framework. One Fusion Framework, all countries Design and develop an integration framework to automate the integration. Used technologies: OSB 11, Fusion 11, DB 11, Java EE 5 , SoapUI, Java (EE), WLST, Shell scripts, PLSQL , Lisa. Recovery Service, all countries Design and development of a recovery framework to recover stuck orders in the middleware using a self-defined rules manager. Used technologies: Java EE 5, DB 11g , PLSQL, Spring, SoapUI Bamboo Integration, all countries Moving the CI implementations from the Hudson environment to the Bamboo environment. Used technologies: Bamboo, Hudson, WLST, Jython, Scripting Database scaling out (Re)Developing database tables for big data tables. Defining the partitioning and Indexing. Used technologies: Oracle DB Agiv (Belgium) Projects: Agiv CRAB Implementing new functionality and security in 'Transactionele webservice voor het decentraal beheer van CRAB'. Used technologies: Java EE 5 , JAAS, JCA InterGamma Projects: Sonic Middleware Extensions Implementing new functionality for the test framework of Sonic middleware. Used technologies: Java EE 5, Spring Dirk Projects: Sonic Middleware Extensions Implementing new functionality for the test framework of Sonic middleware. Used technologies: Java EE 5, Spring 2005 - 2012 Vattenfall ( Nuon) ICT Consultant In all projects, either scrum or waterfall method is used depending on the nature of the project variables. Projects: Design and develop integration solutions for the company to integrate applications residing in the company and external applications. Design and develop adapters for SAP, Siebel, PeopleSoft and other external systems. Design and develop an application for communicating Nuon systems to the Dutch cadastre for the information exchange. Used technologies: OSB (10 .3) ( also older BEA releases ), BPEL (10 .3), Weblogic 10.3, Java EE (5, 4) , Java (5, 4) , Oracle DB (11,10,9) , SoapUI Web applications like PPC, PCD, MatchDB, WebguiOIP Design and develop WEB applications Used technologies: Java EE, Java, Oracle DB, Spring, Struts, JSP, Ajax Back-end applications and libraries Design and develop database applications Used technologies: Oracle DB, Oracle Apex, SQL, PLSQL WLS Security integration Design and develop a security framework to connect the existing security credentials to the Weblogic environment. Used technologies: Java, Java EE 5, JAAS Nuts application Design and develop a real time application for energy trading for the agrarian sector. Used technologies: Java, Java EE 5, Spring EMobility Design and develop a WEB and an Android application for electric car owners to charge their cars. The application was meant to help the users to find the charging stations around them and make reservations, make payments etc. Used Technologies: Java EE, Oracle DB, Android, JSP Nuon Website Design and develop functionality, change existing functionality of the Nuon WWW web page. Used technologies: Java EE, Spring, JavaScript, Oracle DB 2001 - 2004 Logica Consultant KNMI Projects Weather Forecasting System Development of new functionality and bug fixes for the climate monitoring and predicting software . Used technologies: Ingress DB, C and RTAP. RIVM Projects Air Pollution Control System Development of new functionality and bug fixes for the software used for monitoring air quality/pollution stations software. Used technologies: Ingress DB, C and RTAP. Rijkswaterstaat Projects Design, Implementation & Migration Traffic system MTM2 (Motorway Traffic Management System 2) Development of new functionality and bug fixes for the software used for highway monitoring and management in C and RTAP. MoniCa ( MONItoring CAsco System) Responsible for development and 3e line support for the software, hardware and network. The project involved designing and implementing a system for the statistics of the traffic of the highways in Netherlands and made use of real time and ORM database systems. Used technologies: Shell scripts, Ingress DB, C and RTAP. 1998 - 2000 Valar Automatisering Consultant Projects: Design and development of company owned CRM-application named 'Commerce'. Design and development additional functionality for the customers upon the 'Commerce'. Used technologies: Basic, C, Scripting, FoxPro database. 1996-1998 employment agencies I have involved on several short term projects at different companies like programming some simple applications in Basic, writing scripts, helping network engineers and so on. Expertise's Technology Expertise's Oracle Service Bus (9, 10, 11g, 12c) BEA Service Bus (from 2.6) scaling out, tuning, architecting the software, develop ing, administering, architecting the topology, install ing Oracle Business Activity Monitoring(10, 11g, 12c) build monitoring software Oracle Database(6,.., 10, 11g, 12c) SQL, PLSQL, SQL Tuning, Designing schema's, Designing partitioning strategy Oracle Coherence configuring, developing coherence layer, troubleshooting, scaling out, tuning, architecting the topology, installing Oracle Web Services Manager configuring Weblogic (10, 11g, 12c) scaling out, tuning, architecting the software, developing for Weblogic environment, administering, architecting the topology, installing Java EE (5, 6,7) (lead) developing, architecting software design and deployment, security, administering Java SE (4,5,6,7,8) (lead) developing, architecting software design and deployment, security, administering Continuous Delivery / Continuous Integration (Hudson, Bamboo, Jenkins, Maven, SVN, Jira, Gradle, GIT) (Vagrant, Puppet, Docker) Installing, configuring, setting up the environment, configuring the build tools to work together Using tools for DevOps XML technologies (XPath, XQuery, XSLT, XLink) developing Scripting (Jython, Shell scripting) Scripting the environment and Weblogic Testing (SoapUI, JUnit) testing MongoDB installing, developing Hadoop, HDFS Basic knowledge Diplomas and certificates Diplomas Rotterdam University of Applied Sciences 2009-2012 EXIN (AMBI) 2000-2002 Technical Lyceum (Physics) 1985-1988 Certificates M101J MongoDB for Java Developers 2015 Oracle IT Architecture Release 3 Certified Architecture Specialist 2013 Pattern-Oriented Software Architectures for Concurrent and Networked Mobile Devices and Clouds 2013 Oracle Service Oriented Architecture Infrastructure Implementation Certified Expert 2013 Sun Certified Business Component Developer Oracle SOA Suite 2012 Sun Certified Developer Java Web Services 2011 BEA WebLogic Server 9/10: Advanced System Administration 2011 BEA WebLogic Server 9/10: System Administration 2010 Prince2 Foundation 2009 Sun Certified Web Component Developer 2009 Sun Certified Java Programmer 2009 Oracle Program with PL/SQL 2008 Oracle Introduction to Oracle 9i: SQL 2008 Oracle PL/SQL Developer Certified Associate 2008 Application Service Library Foundations 2006 LOI Basisbegrippen NIAM, modellen, schema's en projectmatig werken 2002 LOI Informatiekunde, informatievoorziening en informatiesystemen 2001 LOI Hardware, Software, Netwerken en SQL 2000 Languages Dutch Good English Good Turkish Good 