 Evert-Jan Wagenaar Professional resume Profile Senior Consultant Java / J2ELast updated 20 Augustus 2014 Last updated 20 Augustus 2014 E, Open Source, Information Retrieval / Enterprise Search. Name: Evert-Jan Wagenaar Address Mastweg 6 6813 AH The Netherlands Nationality Dutch Place of birth Soest, the Netherlands e-mail evert.wagenaar@gmail.com Phone: Mobile: +31628878919 Home / Office: (+31) 26 848 7316 Civil status Unmarried Date of birth 24.02 .1964 Drivers licence BE Gender Male Name: Evert-Jan Wagenaar Address Mastweg 6 6813 AH The Netherlands Nationality Dutch Place of birth Soest, the Netherlands e-mail evert.wagenaar@gmail.com Phone: Mobile: +31628878919 Home / Office: (+31) 26 848 7316 Civil status Unmarried Date of birth 24.02 .1964 Drivers licence BE Gender Male Personal Information Personal Information Summarized Knowledge / Skills Lotus Notes / Domino (Both Application Development and System Administration). Java / J2EE Apache Lucene plus related Open Source projects ( Nutch, Sorl, Hadoop, Tika). IR Concepts (Relevancy rankings, Similarity Models, Model types, Semantic analysis, GeoSpational data, the GeoHash (for distance ranking, e.g. Find pizza restaurants near me), (Meta) data extraction from different mime-types, including binary data like Media (JPEG, MP3, QuickTime). OO-Concepts / UML / Design patterns. J2EE Concepts: Servlets, JSP, JSTL, IIOP, JAXB, SOAP, WSDL, RMI, JavaMail, Junit testing, Versioning systems: CVS, SVN, GIT Strong troubleshooting skills. Other (Web / XML related): SAX, DOM, XSL(T), HTML(5) / CSS(3), JavaScript, JSON, GSON, Ajax, Web 2.0, XML Schema’s, Transformations. Xml – Java Binding techniques. Integration of backend and frontend (Portal) applications (JetSpeed / IBM Websphere Portal). Basic working Knowledge of jQuery and similar JavaScript frameworks as well as the PHP scripting language. Gui: Swing / AWT, SWT. Common Java Design Patterns. IDE’s: Eclipse (+ Web Tools Platform) / IBM Rational Application Developer 6 + 7, IntelliJ IBM Rational Architect, Oracle SQL Developer, XMLSpy, StyleVision, Stylus Studio, DreamWeaver + Fireworks, Saxon, Berkeley DB, MarkLogic Server; (Xpath, Xpointer, XQuery). Server Platforms: IBM WAS 4, 5, 6, Open source: Apache Tomcat / Geronimo, jBoss, Lotus Notes/Domino. Working knowledge and experience with SOA techniques, webservices (Axis), wsdl, soap, and REST. Knowledge of Agile methods and tools (SCRUM, CI (Hudson)). Language skills Language skills Dutch: (my native language) excellent in speaking, understanding and writing. English: excellent in speaking, understanding and writing. General writing skills: good to excellent, especially in the subjects, which have my interest (Science & Technology). For this reason I'm considering to become a technical writer. Education Name Institute From To Diploma MAVO-4 PIUS XII Oudenbosch 1876 1980 Yes MLO (Analytical Chemistry) MLO Breda 1981 1985 Yes HLO (Laboratory Automation, evening class) IHBO Etten-Leur 1994 1999 Yes Training / Certificates Name Course taken at Year Score Passed AMBI Modules i1, i2,b1, b2 PBNA / Self Study during Military Service. Tested by EXIM in the Utrecht Jaarbeurs 1987 - 1988 forgot yes Certified Lotus Professional (SA1) Self Study / Sylvan Prometric 1998 80% yes Certified Lotus Professional (SA2) Self Study / Sylvan prometric 1998 78% yes Certified Lotus Professional (AD1) Self Study / Sylvan prometric 1998 87% yes Certified Lotus Professional (AD2) Self Study / Sylvan prometric 1998 82% yes Java for VB Programmers IBM Education & Training - La Hulpe 2000 n.a. (no test, 6 day course only). Certificate of participation Lotus PCLP Upgrade for R5 Self Study / Sylvan prometric 2000 96% yes Sun Certified Java Programmer for the Java 1.4 Platform Self Study / Sun Microsystems 2005 87% yes Effective Presentation In-house training at Employer’s office 2006 n.a. (no test, 4 day training only). Certificate of participation Communication & Advisor In-house training at Employer’s office 2006 n.a. (no test, 4 day training only). Certificate of participation Technical Sales & Negotiation In-house training at Employer’s office 2006 n.a. (no test, 5 day training only). Certificate of participation Several workshops on Service Oriented Architecture and IBM WebSphere The IBM ‘Event’ congress held in Orlando, Florida 2007 n.a. (No test, one week congress only). n.a. PHP / MySQL Developphp.com 2013 n.a. (This web-based course provides courses only without certification) n.a. Spring MVC Udemy n.a. (This web-based course provides courses only without certification) n.a. Special interests Apache Lucene and it's growing number of sub-projects: Nutch, Hadoop, Solr, and Tika. YBoss, Yahoo's BOSS API and similar Rest API’s like OpenCalais and the scientific API’S provided by NCBI. Search clustering techniques. Open source. New Developments, especially around the Eclipse platform, like RAP. XML and related, JAXB, SDO, XSL, FO, SVG and CML (Chemical Markup Language). IOS and Objective C CMS Systems: dotCMS, Magnolia CMS and WordPress. Work Experience August 2009 - Current Independent (freelance) Consultant In May 2009 my employer (MINT) went bankrupt. Since that time I worked as a freelance Java and Open Source Consultant. March 2014 - Current isvworld.com ir consultant / developer Isvworld.com is a Dutch startup based in Amsterdam. Together with the owner we are continuously working on improving automatic classification of ISV’s (Independent Software Vendors) by Industry (for example Live Sciences, Automotive, Banking, Telecom etc.). This project is ongoing research and involves crawling using Open Source Technology (Apache Nutch / Solr / Lucene / UIMA) on a dedicated server based in Germany). August 2010 - September 2013 EPO (European Patent Office, the Hague) ir consultant At the EPO a new project started in 2010. Initially the objective was to provide a tool for the 4.500 European Patent Examiners to search all existing Patents worlwide. A Patent is actually a dossier; it includes bibliographic data, citations, family links, technical figures and juridical claims. EPO itself has about 70 million applications of more than 80 countries. Within these texts are many references to technical figures in 2011 there were about 200 M Patents filed. With an estimated 20 pages for each Patent, the Project was a real challenge in Big Data. During the EPO Patent Search project it became obvious that there were more challenges to overcome: Language Barrier - The number of languages in Europe has increased greatly with the accession of new countries into the EU. EPO initially thought the language barrier could be solved by the use of simple Machine Translation API's. Patent texts are however difficult because of their technical and juridical nature. It became clear that there was a need for a translation service optimized for patent documents. Finally, the expertise from Google was called and currently this service is available and covers translations between English and 31 other languages. Result Ranking - Patents are actually Inventions. EPO already has already classified their huge collection of patents into family links, a taxonomy-like system with deep-links to identified components. Currently this problem is still worked on. In Tilburg I was involved in this project and worked together with the MarkLogic Team on a solution involving a triple store, RDF and Semantics. Unfortunately my hardware (including my work) was stolen during the cause of the project and I gave up. MINT (Media Integration B.V.), Reeuwijk August 2009 - Current Application Developer & Technical Team Leader. In this period the market for IBM consultants (MINT's core activities) began to slow down and more colleagues came 'inside'. We decided to start an in-house project. Which was to create a Domino connector for Apache Solr. The project would be performed the 'open source' way of working. The deliverables were an Enterprise Search Engine, which integrated with Lotus Domino and would enable presentation of Domino data like the EvolvingWeb Solr Demo, which uses a set of Reuters Data. We would use the Online IBM Notes / Domino 6 & 7 and 8 and 8.5 forums as dataset with around 1M Documents. The connector / crawler has been finished and I am currently working together with the founder of the Solr connector framework who I met at jTeam in Amsterdam to fit it in the framework, together with other Enterprise Messaging and Collaboration platforms. I also created the front-end (we didn't have a web-designer available) but since my graphical skills are not very good It's not considered demo-ready. September 2008 - August 2009. Ministry of Defence (classified). Application Developer, external advisor. Participated in an R&D project comparing several commercial and Open Source Enterprise Search Products. My task was to setup the open source Apache Nutch Search Engine and customize it to the needs of the Customer. For this task I: Redesigned the Nutch Web Interface to meet the customer’s requirements. Added Google-like auto-suggest / type-ahead, spell suggestions and results Clustering using the Carrot2 algorithm Implemented security for the crawler to be able to crawl secured (Kerberos, NTLM, SSL) information sources. Integration of Single Sign on (SSO) with Kerberos on the UNIX based Nutch search application. Design and implementation of a mechanism where search results containing classified information would only appear for authorized readers. Optimized the crawler for particular types of information sources. Wrote (osgi based) plugins for Nutch to accomplish this. Implemented (semi) ontology using carrot2. Improved the carrot2 algorithm to fit the customer's requirements Created an Admin GUI for Nutch Administrators, consisting of configuration, scheduling (quartz), monitoring, analysis, reporting and charting. Updated to the latest available version of Nutch (1.0) at that time. Business logic for the above described functionality was wherever possible implemented as Web Services (keeping the organization’s future plans for implementing SOA in mind). September 2006 - to August 2008 ABN Amro, Amstelveen Application Developer, Technical Team Leader Initially hired for Lucene expertise, which the customer suspected to cause Memory Leaks in the global Intranet. The memory problems were however not caused by Lucene but raised due to misconfiguration of the TTL settings in the internal DAO caching mechanism of the Web Application. Solving the memory problems and reporting took less than a week, after which ABN-AMRO assigned me with the role as Lead Programmer for the India- and Egypt based Development teams for a project to reengineer the ABN-AMRO global Intranet. Designed and implemented systems utilizing Struts and Oracle enabling technologies. Worked closely with customers to establish problem specifications and system designs. Technical Team Leader for the BS programmers team (India). Responsible for ‘abn.com, which was under severe load due to the banking crisis in 2008. April 2006 - September 2006 Robeco, Rotterdam Application Developer As developer involved in the 'Professional Web' extranet project. Applied technologies: Struts, Oracle, and BEA Weblogic on both Windows and AIX. 2004 - 2011 Apache Software Foundation Open Source Community Member Part time participated in the Open Source Project 'Nutch', a subproject of Lucene. When I started experimenting with Nutch the version was 0.7 and had just graduated from the Apache incubator, and was now a Subproject of Lucene. Added functionality to the UI for Index browsing and analysis. Starting with Nutch I: Extensively crawled websites, initially on a single machine, later on a small Hadoop cluster. The issues I encountered were contributed to Apache. Solved some issues, which cased the crawler to crash, created patches and submitted these to Apache. Added functionality for selecting and using multiple indexes. Created wiki documentation, mainly on the use of Nutch on MacOS X. January 2006 - February 2006 Kerry Bio-Science, Almere Application Developer / system administrator After a (overhasty) SAP Implementation at Quest International, Quest suffered from severe production problems. Important customers left Quest and switched to other suppliers. The mother Organization ICI decided to fire the responsible managers and sold the Foods Department (including the staff) to Kerry International. This new organization was named Kerry BioScience (KBS). The migration and recertification of all They moved from Naarden to Almere. The Infrastructure including all Business Critical Applications were moved as well. The migration of the Lotus Notes / Domino Infrastructure was initially migrated by Atos Origin. The migration caused a large number of issues in the Business Critical Applications. I was hired to clean up the largest mess and performed a number of tasks: Developed tooling to identify configuration problems in existing (Lotus Notes) Applications. Developed additional Applications required by Kerry Developed a reporting tool for the existing CRM system based on Lotus Notes. Disclosed data from Domino R5 application using DXL and Notes Java Agents. Provided ongoing Application Support February 2006 - March 2006 Quest International, Naarden. Application Developer Extension of the Raw Material Questionnaire (RMQ) with a new section for Allergens. RMQ is a web based dynamic questionnaire. Applied techniques: XML, XSL, DIIOP (IIOP for Domino) 2003 - 2006 Kerry Bio-Science, Naarden Application Support Engineer / Developer Provided support for Domino Applications after the takeover from Quest International's Food Division by Kerry. Developed and applied tooling systems to aid in recertification. Restructured Lotus Notes applications to reflect the new organization. 2003 - to 2007 Quest International, Naarden Application Support Engineer / Developer Provided ongoing application support for the existing Intranet / Extranet applications. Development of new functionality for existing applications. Created Technical Documentation for the existing Systems. Designed the 'Central Document Repository’ Intranet application. J2EE application for guided exploration and Information Retrieval. Based on open source (Jakarta Lucene) / Tomcat. May 2005 - August 2005 Supplier of Electronic Medical Dossiers Application Developer Participated in the project 'WebEPD', an Electronic Medical Dossier in use by psychiatric institutions in the Netherlands and Belgium. Development of Java Components for archiving and retrieval of data. Applied techniques: XHTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, iText Java Library for PDF. January 2004 - August 2004 Damco International, Rotterdam Application Developer Participated in the project ‘ERates’. A system for marine logistics, based on IBM Portal Server Express 5. Created portlets for data entry and PDF generation. Integrated the Portal with the Domino Infrastructure to supply Single Sign on (based on domino as LDAP server). 2003 - 2006 Domino Hosting Provider Domino & Linux Specialist Designed and realised the Domino Hosting infrastructure and on 2 Linux RH 8 systems. 2002 - 2003 Chubb Lips, Dordrecht Application Developer Designed and realized the 'Electronic Plan board for Installation Systems'. A web based planning tool with Drag & Drop Interface for use by regional planners. Backend connection to the companies ERP System for automated availability check and notification on materials and resources. Applied techniques: DHTML, JavaScript, Java, Oracle, and Domino. 2000 - 2002 Quest International, Naarden Application Developer Full Time development of Extranet and Intranet Applications based on Lotus Notes / Domino, IBM WAS, Oracle. Example: Raw Material Questionnaire (RMQ): B2B application (intranet + extranet) where suppliers enter product specifications in an RMQ. The RMQ consists of dynamic sections where questions are generated on the fly based on configurable business rules. Specifications are stored in the Food Workbench (Oracle). The system is still in production today, has processed thousands of RMQ's and requires low maintenance. Applied techniques: HTML / JavaScript / LotusScript / XML / XSL / Servlets / Oracle / JDBC. 2000 - 2000 Atlas Copco, Brussels Application Developer Participated in a project for development of a b2b web application for comparison of specifications from suppliers. 2000 - 2002 Uniqema, Gouda Application Developer Provided Application Support for the 'Web Order Entry System'. A Domino / Oracle based web application build by Lotus Professional Services. 1999 - 2004 EMD Nederland b.v. Rotterdam Lotus Notes / Domino application developer & System Administrator After over 10 years R&W Bio Research in which I did a lot of IT related work I decided to switch permanently to IT. At EMD I started with getting certified. Within 2 months I had the 3 certificates required to get the PCLP (Principal Certified Lotus Professional). Shortly hereafter I was a full billable Consultant. 1999 - 2002 Dutch bar Association (Nederlandse Orde van Advocaten), The Hague. Application Developer, support engineer Developed a number of web applications based on Lotus Notes / Domino for the public website and for internal use (AdvocatenPas). Later on provided maintenance & support. Many of these applications are still in production. For example http://www.alleadvocaten.nl. 1998 - 1999 Siemens, Brussels Application Developer Development of a Lotus Notes application, which aided Development of a Lotus Notes, based application to allow Siemens to perform projects in the Pharmaceutical Industry where Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) regulations apply. These require full traceability of all decisions made during a project. 2000 - 2000 Elsevier Business Intelligence, Den Haag Consultant Performed a feasibility study for the customer to investigate the possibility of migration of Lotus Domino Rich Text data to the IIS platform. 1988 - 1999 R&W Bio Research, Oosterhout Chemical analyst, study director, System Administrator, Information Analyst, Application Developer. Started as chemical Analyst; later on became Study Director Analytical Method Development. Starting with CompuServe and later on STN, Chemical Abstracts / Dialog I was able to access online Research sources which appeared valuable for the R&W Academic researchers. Soon became professional in the field of Biomedical and Chemical Electronic Literature Research. Implemented E-mail and UseNet trough UUCP and developed the Company Website. (R&W was one of the first companies in NL with a domain name and website). The site is still available on the way back Internet archive. Developed Laboratory Information Systems based on FileMaker Pro, which connected the PCs in the labs with the back office and online resources, which enabled several departments (QA, Lab. Management, Supply management, GLP Study directors, Management) to work together more efficiently. 